## Preface
We live in a new age. An age of magic: where our most powerful are silent, and the magic reigns in their absence. Some strive to expand it, others try to control it, and a further few work to destroy it. Yet who are we to decide the use of such a powerful force? Long ago, our People learned how to understand what can't be understood. They learned we as People are best when not trying to overexert our minds beyond what we can comprehend. The mind is a fickle thing, indeed, slow to develop but quick to descend into madness. Just look at some of the once great minds, and how they have melted into the timeline of oblivion by trying to solve the waking world's unanswerable questions. So how, then, do we solve these questions? It seems quite reasonable that they could be the answers that push our People forward, but if we do not have the conscience to understand then how do we progress? The answer to this unanswerable, my Friends, unlike the others, lies in our history not our future. For our society once had the solution to everything we could need, and we continued to move forward, allowing peace and fortune to flow like a calm reminiscing dream. These solutions lay in libraries of knowledge now ignored, sit buried under ever growing silt mounds moved by the rivers, or behind clouds that no longer seem to let the Sun shine through. These solutions were once given to us People when we deserved, but more importantly when we could understand. These solutions kept us moving at a slower and more stable pace, one that wouldn't cause the bones to break and the mind to tear. These solutions; the inalienable knowledge of our Saints. 

With the Great Rift, the colossal capricious Cataclysm, our world had to learn to bear new gifts and toils quicker than ever before. The new magic essences seemingly flowed everywhere, just waiting to be harnessed. As with any new knowledge, the first answers were not in how to move society forward, but in how to use it for great exploit. Many of our less enlightened hoped to fill the void left by the Saint’s absences with their own twisted views of the world. And, to the chagrin of the ever faithful, many were successful. So much so that as we wander the lands of our Fel, it is hard to find any who haven't given up trust of their lineage for a new, wild-front full of magic. In these new times post-Rift, it is important to ask, however, why these two things cannot work together? Why must one choose between the old and the new? Why not eat both the apple and the orange, or sometimes ride the ostrich instead of the horse, or have the fork in the road teardrop back around to an even grander, joined Court of honor? One can harness magic in service of their Saints, and in doing so can be sure that they maintain access to their knowledge. Think of all the things the Old World once had: the structure and safety, the harmony and prosperity, the progress and success. Magic has its own form of many of these, of course, but it has just as many pitfalls as the more ancient beginnings of the Saints. Instead of forcing ourselves into isolating on one form of thought, magic should be an addition without subtraction. There is no found reason why our Saints cannot live in harmony with this new energy and use it alongside us to benefit the lives of all. With time, and refinement, this newfound magic certainly can be used as a force of good, and a way to push us to even more solutions to our most unanswerable questions. Together, in this book of combined teachings, we will learn how magic and the Saints- hand in hand- allow us to get ever closer to the serene future we are deserved of, and how one can accomplish such a pairing. 

## Chapter 1: Modern Values
It is no secret that magic has brought with it a vast new array of styles, and it is not this book's expectation to ever return to a time before it. In fact, through this book it is hoped many will continue to embrace magic. However, the modern world needs a more appropriate blend of our old and new values, to ensure our soup of life is not too salty nor too bland. Before the Rift, power was considered to be held, transferred, and distributed fairly. Of course, there were those who cried abuses of the Saints, but with no facts and only opinions. Opinions hold a grand place in our modern, civilized world, we should never punish people for offering them. The issue the old world continuously suffered from was one that has always and will continue to be the problems of People: how to separate natural fact from social opinions. For example, is it necessarily a natural fact that Elves are smarter because they are born with hair, which causes less of their mother's shared knowledge to escape in the first crucial weeks? Many Elves would indeed argue this, and some could even make seemingly strong, concrete debates of such. However, with further research and study, we as a People have found that it is more in their brain shape as a whole, having far more ridges and folds than that of Humans, Dwarves, and all other manner of sophisticated species of Fel. Therefore, modern beliefs are that instead this Elven folklore (of which I was raised myself) is not a natural fact, but a social opinion of that society's self image. Or, for a much better term, a group-accepted lie. A lie that is kept despite the evidence proving it as such, and due to this group acceptance, many Elves continue to think quite pompously of themselves even today. This example gives a good story of how we should be living our lives. The modern world is much too libertine, expending much too much energy and effort into finding answers to questions we do not have the willpower to understand. We must return back to the more stoic ways of our past, at the very least to ensure we do not strain our fragile society too far into the advanced, before we fully understand the simple. Thus, there are three values our society needs to more heavily establish, in order to better survive this new world we have been given. The first is we must embrace the new magic as an art, and not attempt to shut it out (as said before, we mean not to return to the Before). The second, is to recognize how power is organized, and ensure it continues to remain well divided, and doesn't overflow from a few bowls while the others run dry. And finally, we must focus deeper into our own lives, ensuring we focus only on what we can handle, and leaving what we do not comprehend to those who can. 

These same issues in how People think were present in the old governance of the Saints. Despite all the evidence pointing towards the Saints having our interests at heart, many felt they were attempting to grab too much power for themselves; They weren't giving enough solutions to our unanswerables. Except this does not seem to be the case, especially when discussing the topic of magic. We have all seen how powerful magic is, and more importantly how unstable it can be. Are we really to believe the new-world AntiSaint’s, that claim for thousands of years magic was being hidden and suppressed by our great leaders? This is not a natural fact, indeed. Instead, the natural facts can best be defined another way. Let us discuss a more accurate direction, which hides its depiction in a deep dive of Art. Everything is art, and we as beings divide them up into many art forms. An art form can be as simple as how a flower is shaped, and grown, and blossoms. Or as complex as the art form of an entire civilization, how their cities rise up and expand according to their needs: a well here, a market there, a place of worship near (isn't it peculiar how they always seem to be on top of the highest hill?) Art forms, my Friends, yield patterns. The Rift caused many art forms to bend, some to snap entirely, and others still created almost entirely anew. One of the most famous new art forms is, of course, magic. With magic being an art form, and art forms having patterns, magic must have patterns. These patterns can be described as Focus, Energy, Will, and Faith. Anyone who has these is able to get at least a glimpse, a slight taste, of the new magic that flows through Fel. To simplify, magic is an art form, which means it has patterns, and those patterns cause it to have the ability to be beneficial. The main pattern of magic that keeps the modern world unsteady, however, is that of will. With a central belief system no longer linking all beings, those with more nefarious minds have already turned to selfishness, hoarding power and trying to claw their way into what they see as an empty King's Chair. The Saint's, holding humility as any great leader does, were able to contain their will on a multitude of art forms, and use that to build balance and order on our lands. If we wish to live in harmony with magic, we must first grasp a strong understanding of positive will. 

Alas, no one can truly know what caused magic to erupt into our world and turn it upside down. However if the Saint's did hold this magic before, why not use it on the people who now try to control it? Seeing as how magic has seemingly pushed aside their once stable power of safety and harmony, wouldn't they use it themselves to clean the frayed edges caused by the Rift? The natural fact, as has become clear in the past few years, is instead that magic was being held by the one man or group that caused the bright light before the Rift. They held all the power themselves, and seem to have finally decided to wage war on the Saint's; wanting their libraries of knowledge for themselves. Instead, natural fact once again took over: the magic split and fractured across the land, and the Saints were forced to take a step back, as they knew we would see their interference as an attempt to steal the magic from us. The Saints have never wanted to remove knowledge from the world, because their goal is to keep the world moving forward. One way they learned to accomplish this was to keep power distributed fairly. The primary method they devised to accomplish this was simply to expand their numbers, having a more Oligarchal system. Time has shown that mono-power systems fall due to the faults of one, but by having many, the risk of temptation and corruption becomes diluted in the trust of the full system. Some have coined a term for this type of system, a checks and balances system, keeping all the scales evenly distributed, not allowing either one or a small group from gaining too much weight, and pushing the scales towards their goals. A civilized, modern society can not rely solely on having all the power in their might and external influences, just as much as such a society can not rely entirely on their feelings and internal. Thus, A Saint becomes The Saints. However, on the contrary, too many keys to power leads to devious and predetermined parties, that coalition into a never ending power struggle until all are so evenly organized that nothing can be accomplished. All this organization then bears the question: How do you refill a hole from a retired or dead Saint? The idea of a Saint dying seems quite studious to one, and more humorous to another. Yet it is worth our time to consider, since if a key were to disappear, what is stopping another key from molding into fitting into both locks? The Saints have long ago derived a system for this, in that they do not die. We do not yet know if they once had mortal bodies and transcended, or if they have never been in a real body we are able to detect with our normal 5 senses. However, it is clear to us that they do not leave. What, then, would make them completely disappear? Surely not some large burst of light and magic in the once famed Lathe. By distributing power evenly, the Saints were able to provide great resilience, as even if they were scattered due to the Rift, a system must be in place to ensure the overall system and governance does not fall. While the Saints may very well be dormant now, we must all see that this is more of a hibernation, and that we as a People must find the necessary triggers to bring this system back. The new, modern world of magic has splintered the land of Fel into unorganized, medieval chaos that needs to be returned to place by the will of the People.

A common theme of our discussion here can easily be construed as conservative, that we need to go back to the times of before. However, this is far from the goal of this book, as has been discussed before. One of the better ways to express this, perhaps, should be to expand on one of the most overarching values that our society needs to bring back. For the entirety of our existence, free thinking species have ebbed and flowed with a common quandary: What to do with the pool of power that exceeds the species’ needs? It is a firm understanding of many scholars of Fel that for every being created, a surplus of power flows through them into the civilization’s reserves. This surplus is one of the leading causes of struggle, war, and disaster in all of our history, present, and future. A surplus of power, that only compounds in excess as a population increases. An entropy that grows as a seemingly benign issue, a once-thought-failed bottle of wine to push to the back of the cellar, slowly gathering dust until the gasses have filled every hole in the jar. Then suddenly, or not so suddenly, a loud burst, shooting glass and juice throughout the basement, coating everything in a dark red stain. These explosions have been seen many times in Our lands, with the most direct comparison of course being the Rift of Leithe. And what worries the many, and causes the few to salivate, is that yet another bottle has already been corked. Our current, magic filled wine bottle has begun to be forgotten in the corner, still not learning from our past. Yet that is a Person’s nature, to forget and shove aside, thinking ‘this will never happen again;’ this is not something to be ashamed of. The bottle may be corked, my Friends, but it is certainly not yet covered in dust. In order to ensure a certain progress, to make sure the bottle is not forgotten, but consumed at its peak aging, we must recognize what our past has foretold. And that, with the amount of power we are concerned with, is the natural act of Stoicism. To be stoic, we must take a step back from the discussions of where magic sits in our lives now. It is understood, however, by this book, at how hypocritical this sounds. For one, we have already spent many pages discussing the opposite, to put the worries and concerns of power into the forefront of our minds. And while this certainly is still the goal, it is also important to make the distinction between remembering power, and recognizing how much you can or should control. Remember, all of us are created with more power reserves than we can muster ourselves, and the rest we must find outlets for. Too much hoarding of power leads to consequential changes of the mind, constantly needing more, constantly begging for any grain of stardust like a dilapidated addict. By focusing on stoicism, by truly digging deep into our minds, we can learn to split our power up more evenly. We learn to focus on our own lives, and not try and influence things we know are not in our control. No longer will one grab at rocks on the cliff that are too fragile, and cause them to fall all the way back to their old shell. Giving power to those who can comprehend the incomprehensible allows one to not ruin their mind by trying to answer unanswerable questions, as discussed before. This is exactly where the Saints come in, being stoic is not necessarily about focusing only on yourself (quite selfish), but focusing on what you can control and allowing some things to be controlled by others. Convincing oneself to give up power will never be an easy task, but it can be helped along by locking into one concrete idea: The idea of stoicism. 

These are our main ideals, my Friends. A code of morals, that we can use to further strengthen our resolve and our character. Our modern world is ever changing and ever more worrisome, but if we can all gain a combined system of modern values, we might be surprised at how quickly things return to a time of prosperity for all. Now we must move on to a more debated issue. We must discuss what goes beyond free expression. We must unravel what enters into the world of the unacceptable. 
## Chapter 2: Modern Taboos
With our new modern world, we can not simply focus on a small set of values and expect great success into the future. After all, this new system is not a final solution, but instead an ever flowing design meant to ebb and flow with the world as it continues to adapt to this unprecedented change. As such, we can not only think about values and things to add to our world, but we must also open our thoughts to things that need to be removed. Think of these things as you would any trade deal: A humble nomad has watched his flock grow from lamb to sheep, grazing the Northeastern pastures for many years. As are many nomads of our time, he does not have a large family to divide responsibilities upon, thus he must wait until he thinks his flock will have the greatest value before traveling into town for sale. While waiting for this climax, some sheep may die, and some may begin to grow frayed and useless wool. However, a well trained and experienced shepherd would not let these shortfalls cause him any distress. For one day he will wake up, look upon his flock, and realize that the time has now come. This nomad has indeed thought every day about the small fortune his flock could gain, but in order to do this he has removed the thoughts from his mind of misfortune. He has allowed sheep to die, he has held some as they lay bleeding from wolf attacks, but did not let his emotions overcome him. The humble nomad values the life of animals more than any other in our world, but still recognizes the positives of the majority, and does not falter. His values are strong, but that is due to him also recognizing his craft’s taboos. If he loses his spirits due to the ever present wolf, or the occasional overgrown wool mat, he would certainly still gain a hefty profit, but would be scorned by his fellow shepherds. These other shepherds, as mentioned before, are very keen on their animals, and detest anyone not allowing them to acquire their full potential. Our modern world, despite all our advancements of technology, thought, and focus, still has much to learn from these humble nomads. We must accept that some things are taboo, and must be reduced in their influence. For our People to grow, we must consider first the three most important of these issues. Stardust has continued to grow as a malignant growth that should be expunged, though we will shortly discuss how to do so without bringing even more pain into our People. Additionally, the new popularity of unproved Gods has begun to muddy the waters of thought and growth, which in turn has continued to cause Fel to reduce to a dull simmer. Finally, one must learn to trust their Sharers, who of which we will explain at the tail end of this chapter of problems.

To begin this discussion, we should start by first expanding on a topic that was briefly mentioned at the end of last chapter. This, of course, is the growing epidemic that has taken over the poor in our lands, and pushed even more greed into the minds of the rich. An epidemic that will only continue to grow, further tightening the restraints on our People. The term many know it as is Stardust, or for the more research minded individuals, Salis mundus. For our conversations, we will use the scientific term as not to cause some to be intrigued by the poison. Overly scientific-ing a term can make it seem much more boring, thus not causing People to even want to entertain the idea of trying a taste. Salis mundus was created in good faith, attempting to give anyone who desired it the power of magic with minimal training. However, training is a much needed aspect of magic, allowing only those who have the necessary knowledge in restraint to use it. Without proper training and knowledge, we see how quickly Salis mundus was able to corrupt the weak minded. The slope between obtaining magical ability and being overcome with it is quite slippery; Unfortunately, this slope seems to be coated in a thin layer of ice. Once you begin to slip, it is impossible to stop without severe external influence. Thus, we have ended up with every dark corner of Fel being filled with those desperate for money, just to get another taste of magical power. Those of us who believe in a new world cannot slip down into the Salis mundus plague, and must do what we can to ensure those who have are able to escape it. The use of dragon flower tonic allows for effects to be redacted, but this is more of a temporary salve, and does not destroy the addiction. Additionally, it is important to discuss if the addiction is more of a physical or mental one. The poison of course causes both physical and mental effects, and while the physical effects are vast, those can for the most part be repaired. The mental effects, however, are much harder to repair. With Salis mundus being so new, it is hard to truly grasp the very long term effects on the mind. Yet it is clear what the temporary effects are, and that is devastation by power acquisition. By now, we know what excessive power does to People, with Salis mundus giving positive synapse firings for power gained, and negative ones for power lost. Magic requires an enormous level of self restraint, as it always tempts the mind into wanting more and more until there is nothing left to have. Once that point is reached, one’s mind is completely controlled by their need for magic, and thus far is not expected to ever recover. Once one has reached this point, an honest discussion must be had among our People as to what must be required to do with them. A useless member of society should not be coddled, and it is this book’s recommendation that they be eliminated. Hopefully, with more research into Salis mundus and more public outcry against it, we shall eliminate its chokehold on Fel, and leave magic to those who have the ability to control it with more safety and less hunger. 

When discussing the Saints, a common argument one often faces is “What about the others?” After all, there are many Gods worshipped all throughout Fel, however with that we must be reminded that this is a common tactic among antagonists. A tactic known as Whataboutism is often used by those who do not agree with another’s point, but do not have the confidence in their own points to make a valid argument. Instead, they try to change the subject and drown out your points by mentioning many other things that are wrong with the world. However, at some point one must draw a line in the sand and refuse to cross it. While being stubborn is often seen as a negative trait, a certain level of stubbornness should be in one’s beliefs, to prevent them from being stepped on and taken advantage of. With this, we must make it known that one cannot worship Gods other than the Saints. These Gods are unproven, and have only grown in their popularity due to the ever growing magical elements of the modern world. The two largest sects of these believers will be discussed here, but it is important to note none of these Gods are to be worshipped, no matter how tempting their promises seem. The worst of these sects is the group of (super scary, Ari hasn’t given a name yet), who have developed a cult around the Rift itself, believing magic is the new way and worship the unknown one that caused the bright light over Leithe. These people, if you could even call such a poisoned being that, are the worst of what the modern world has given us. Magic is powerful, and incredibly useful, but should not be worshipped alone. This worship inevitably ends the same way a Salis mundus addiction does, with one being completely enamored in magic and losing all control of their lives. This cult has also taken an extremely aggressive stance, killing those who refuse to acknowledge their unproven, unseen ‘Leader’. A follower of the Saints would never commit such an atrocity simply due to what one believes. A follower of the Saints, instead, allows their logic and clear truths to convince others that this is the right path. It is imperative that our People eliminate this cult, before they are able to spread their pain and bloodshed further into Fel. The other group of followers we will discuss are the opposite side of the spectrum. While the cult of (Ari name) focus on the extreme and deadly, the Humanists are much more passive, too much so. Humanists seem to have lost all will in progressing through the new world, accepting that the Saints have abandoned us and the world will completely give in to this new magical awakening. These people are often found aimlessly wandering, taking trains and convoys to nowhere, refusing to accept a new life in the modern world. They are not nomads, but homeless and desperate. As such, this book sees them more as unknowns, not necessarily following a God, but waiting to gain enough knowledge to allow them to make a better assumption on who to follow. This group, therefore, is one of the main Peoples that should be welcomed back into the following of the Saints. The Saints, as we know, are not dead, and have not given up on Fel. For they know that the People as a whole did not cause the Rift, the People as a whole did not give up on the Saints. This disaster was caused by a select few, who were jealous of their power. Lastly, it is important to note that one is not required to equally worship the numbers of Saints we know to exist. The Saints have always respected each other’s following, one can worship whichever Saints they wish. After all, their praises and tithes all go towards the collective, allowing another failsafe to ensure power is equally distributed. Fairness is a right of all, and the People are always welcome to change what they believe as they better understand. 

The final crucial aspect of returning the Saints word and trust into the world is that of bringing back the Sharers. For those who have grown from childhood in the age of the Rift, and for those who have lost much of what they once knew, the importance of the Sharer may not be known. As a means of reminder, a Sharer is used to receive the Word of the Saints, analyze it, and distribute it to their local group of followers. A Sharer’s role is sacred, and only those who have proven their belief and humbleness are allowed to receive the raw word and scripture of the Saints. Throughout the ages, however, Sharers have had to deal with those who believe certain callings from the Saints are not to their benefit. One who gains too much power, as stated many times before, is hesitant to give it up. However, for the better of All, the Saints often make new Callings to allow for the power balance to be restored. Sharers are required, as the callings of the Saints are often too broad or too specific for the common People to fully comprehend. This has often created a layer of distrust, as People are always wary of a middle man. This wariness is mainly due to the world of trade and economics, as in a stable economy a middle man must take some off the top to make their existence feasible. However, it is important to remember a Sharer is under direct authority of the Saint they have chosen to dedicate their lives to, and they have no need to cut off some for their own personal gain. A Sharer is the highest step in our World, there is no more to gain, and no reason to take more power. Failure to trust your Sharer, therefore, is unacceptable. An accusation of corruption has its place, as it always does in a fair system, but one must not harbor this anger and allow it to fester and corrupt their mind. With a reinvigorated system of Saints, even more Sharers than before are required in this new world of magic. This new Sharer system will allow one who has confidence in their accusations to bring it to another Sharer, who can take these complaints directly to the Saints and allow a proper judgement to be made. While this taboo is less crucial at this time, it is the understanding of this book that this section will be better understood and written out in scripture once the Sharers have again developed a complete system throughout Fel. 

This chapter discusses three taboos, but it is also necessary to understand that there are many more in our world. These three, however, are the most pressing, and the ones that seem to be less thought of by many in the New World of magic. More are to be discussed, just as more Values are to be discussed in the future. These taboos are absolutely unacceptable, and while we should be open to many ideas and thoughts, some are simply too restricting and terrible to accept. With this baseline, this book hopes to further expand our views to all those who are looking for answers in this modern world, and together create a better, modern Fel. 
## Addendum I
This book is not the end all be all, but is instead the first, founding Volume in a new system of thought and judgement. Those who believe this new system can work, and even those who simply want to better understand it, shall continue learning the methods of the Old World, and help the research and further thought of how magic can be used in conjunction. The Saints are waiting to be remembered, and it is up to us to allow them to be so. 

We remember what others forget.
We seek what others fear.
We bind the broken names in light.
For the Saints are watching,
And we will be their voice everlasting.
Go on your ways with these teachings, my Friends, for we now know the truth.