The year is 721 A.C., or post ascension, and the world of Fel has been overtaken by magic long sealed away. 

The old Calbraithen regime in the northwest of Yarra, the eastern continent, has fallen at the hands of its people. Their army was vastly unprepared to deal with a citizenry that could suddenly hurl fire at their soldiers. King Darion Caelthorn, responsible for the rapid expansion of Calbraithe, was slain in his own palace. Self-governed cities and states fought for whatever remained of the once great empire.

To the East of Calbraithe and across arid grasslands and canyons was the old city of Leithe, tucked away at the mouth of the Mahaz Ridge, now nothing more than a crater carved into the mountainside. Refugee towns dotted the edges of the crater as those who survived were desperate to find a new home, and protect their own against bandits—who were now significantly more dangerous than ever before. 

Most people were unsure what happened to the once great capital city of Erreleth. Some say it went up in a ball of blue fire, while others saw parts of it simply "blur" out of existence. Some scholars of this new "magic" have set up research stations near the scarred earth, looking for answers in the charged rubble.

The world looked very different before The Cataclysm threw everything off course. People lived in whatever way made sense to them, and while life wasn't always prosperous, it was certainly simpler. Small orders and communities of dotted the forests to the east of the Mahaz, where people lived as they had for hundreds of years nurturing their own and preserving tradition. The conquests of Calbraithe gave inventors and businesses the chance to learn to work with metals and craftsmanship they'd never seen before, expanding trade and technology throughout Yarra faster than anyone could've anticipated. Before we knew it, cargo trains where taking goods between major urban hubs separated by mesa and grassland, and gave the Rebellion a chance to build against the powerful. Leithe was a prosperous academic city, where university research helped to create industrial technologies that helped those who could afford it. People came from all corners of the continent to study with professors in Leithe. Above all, The Saints. Most people had never met them, but their influence and miracles could be felt across Fel, since they obviously knew what was best for the people.

While the Cataclysm certainly sent The Rebellion, The Saints, and other nations and organizations spiraling in ways no one could've imagined, our story begins much smaller.

# 6th of Hostar, 721
#### [[01 - June 1st, 2025|Session 1 - June 1, 2025]]
## An Awkward Encounter
We begin with the steady rhythm of a moving train, where the first signs of dusk creep through a gold-framed glass roof. The somewhat peaceful air of the main seating car is suddenly broken by the pompous laughter of a small dwarven man dressed in golds and reds, happily reciting his plans once he and the others arrive at Port Almasha. In the booth behind him, backs turned to each other, is a black and gray Tabaxi in loose pants and leather-padded armor named Noro, escorting the dwarven man named Boding. She listens carefully as Boding describes his magical, ornate compass to another passenger coated in magical equipment. An old student of Leithe, Demiel looks to detect the magical properties of the compass and discovers someone in a booth ahead exuding a magical aura unlike anything he has ever seen.

This figure quickly disappears back into the cargo car after realizing she has been spotted. Demiel follows and discovers two merchants, Ewan Reid and Tiyeme Assisi, discussing their plans for their wares once they arrive in Port Almasha. Unable to locate the hooded girl he saw earlier, Demiel continues through only to discover that this is the last car. Rather than admit his mistake and pass by Ewan and Tiyeme again, he becomes invisible to avoid an awkward encounter.

Ylva, the half-dragon half-human girl that Demiel attempted to make contact with, returns to the passenger car after successfully evading attention and turns her focus to the compass, following the recommendation of the draconic voice in her head. She introduces herself to Noro. Purchasing the item once it reaches its destination seems like the best path forward to her, and a deal is struck without any input from Boding.

Demiel, having avoided any awkward encounters, drops his invisibility and awkwardly introduces himself as he sneaks up on Ylva and Noro’s conversation. After showing off his magical knowledge and prying into Ylva’s aura, she reveals herself and her half-dragon form to the entire passenger car, including Ewan and Tiyeme, who appear behind her as she asks if Demiel can separate her and the dragon. Dragons have been something of legend for as long as anyone can remember. Not knowing what else to try, Demiel attempts a Dispel Magic spell. Ylva screams in pain as the magic begins to affect the dragon in her head and begs him to stop. This clearly will not work. Ewan has a brief interaction with a mother and child who recognize him from the Calbraithen army and thank him for his service before he goes to the cargo car to retrieve the child's backpack.

Suddenly, loud clanging noises are heard on the side of the cargo car. Peering out of the window, grappling hooks latch onto the sides of the passenger car, and loud banging suggests someone has boarded the cargo car uninvited. Ewan, Tiyeme, and Ylva run to the back, while Demiel and Noro stay behind to keep an eye on Boding and the father of the Calbraithen family.
## The Red Maw & Ewan's Awakening
